Hey, Alan. It's Brent. And we're back for another episode of AB testing. Episode number 78. We've
been doing this a long time and I don't think we're getting any better. Well, let me put it this way.
We're, but we're, maybe we're not getting any worse either. There is that. Maybe. There's always a
Silver Lane. Maybe, maybe we're getting better. AB testing is a podcast about a lot of things,
including testing, software quality, agile. What we've been talking about a lot lately is
our concept of the modern tester and what that means. Anything else I missed? Big topics?
Organizational change, leadership, management, those all fall in here. Highly customer focused.
The customers are you, the listeners. So we take feedback from you a lot, both in our topics that
we're developing that we'll talk about today, as well as questions for listeners. Send those in via
Twitter at Alan Page at Brent M. Jensen. Alan at angry weasel.com is fine. Anything else I missed?
Brent's laughing while he goes, look, Alan makes a funny face when he's thinking.
I'm thinking we should actually sit down and actually write this out and practice
reading it as if we're not reading it. You don't understand. This is what I'm doing. I am
prototyping intros until I find little bits and pieces I like. Just doing this
cold, I would get the wrong value for the customer. I need to try some things that eventually
will have something that's scripted for a while, then memorized, and then I'll change words and
then we'll morph into something else. Everything I do in life is adaptive. Everything is a learning
experience. I do it. I learn from it. I modify it as needed to make it better and better and
better. That's why, actually, if that was true, I'd be a much better person.
Yeah, I was going to say, that is a fantastic rationalization for the fact that you're freaking
old and forgot what you said last week. I'll go with it, because I'm all about
adapting. Didn't we agree that although I'm older chronologically, that you are much more the
older fart? In certain contexts. All. In certain people.
No, not all. For certainly not all. There is a lot of places where I'll tell people that I am.
47, going on 10. All right. Don't tap the table.
It's always something with you. Don't play with the microphone. Don't tap the table.
Don't shake your leg. Don't pull your pants down during the recording.
Fair enough. Okay. So, let's do a podcast. We've already, last episodes, we have gone all over
where is the weasel just reminding people that I am heading off to test bash next week. Looking
forward to it. Going to be fun. I'm giving a talk called Adventures in Modern Testing. In
the program as experiences, I've changed the title. I don't think it matters that much.
Adventures in Modern Testing, where we will talk about what modern testing is.
And if you were caught up on your episodes last time, Brent and I talked about modern
testing principles, which was a lot of fun. I had some sketched out ideas, some drafts.
We vetted through them and changed them. In the week since we recorded on our Slack channel,
one of the three.slack.com, contact us if you like an invitation. We vetted them a lot.
We did. And there was a lot of activity on Twitter as well. That's the thing that actually really
surprised me was the number of pictures we got and presentations we got of people already
just incorporating them, which makes me feel a little guilty because in my view,
I don't think they're fully born yet. They're not ready yet. They are in beta.
I would say they're out of alpha. They're into beta. I think of it like a recipe.
And I think it's like baking, right? And when you bake, you put all the liquid in one bowl
and all the dry goods in another bowl. And in my view, I'm still kind of looking at the
dry bowl. I'm like, am I missed? Did I put baking soda in there?
Does it need a little bit more salt? Here's some insight that may tell you and some listeners
much more about me. I love to cook. So do I. I do not love to bake. And the difference is,
baking is chemistry and needs to be very exact. I'm an adaptive cooker tasting as I go,
trying new combinations out. You can't do that baking or you have to have much more
patients to retry and retry and retry and get it right. And also like chemistry track very closely
your formulas and what you did. I like cooking because I can do two aspects of it. One,
I love the experimentation. Well, what? Biggest three. I love eating. That's probably the biggest
thing. As do I. I love the experimentation part of it. I love trying new things out.
I also like this is sort of the leadership orchestration project management part of it.
I also think it's fun to create a meal of several dishes and cook them so they're and plan ahead
so they all complete about the same time. Oh, you like the timing aspect of it? The timing
aspect of it I enjoy as well. It's a conductor of an orchestra. I completely agree. So I do
Thanksgiving at my house and that is what is like I'll spend a half hour with a with a spreadsheet
going, okay, I want to do this, this. I need to start this at that time. I may take some notes.
I don't do a spreadsheet. Now I do because I'll be so when I do Thanksgiving, I generally do the
whole thing and there's like 10 to 15 different things that I'm making all in that same day.
Wow. Yeah, it's a lot of fun. Tangent. Oh my gosh, tangents are so rare on this show.
I did not realize in all the years we have worked together that we share a love of cooking, although
I am not afraid to go and tweak baking recipes. But I take some confidence and experience.
Alton Brown. Do you know that name? I do not know that name. Oh, you need to learn that name. But
pause for a second. If you tangent inception, you saw my technical testing talk where one of
the slides I showed a picture of a kitchen and talked about how I liked cooking because I like
the exploratory nature of it. Maybe you didn't realize that I actually meant it. No, no. So
generally when I get get your slides, I get your slides. They don't come with audio. So I have seen
your picture of your beautiful kitchen. It's not my kind. It's a stock photo. But anyway, Alton Brown,
I am surprised that you do not know who this guy is. He no longer does the show. He did like 10
seasons of a show called Good Eats. I don't watch much TV other than things that I would binge.
But in the cooking world, he is absolutely my hero. And he's kind of like the Mr. Wizard of cooking.
So his shows, he'll go through a recipe and he'll explain to you why the recipe works.
And he is a massive hacker. So he like one of those key principles is he does not like single
tasking tools in the kitchen. So he'll go through and say this particular tool, because this
particular tool, you can use it for this, this and this other thing. Like Apple cores. I don't
think he would be a supporter of Apple cores because that pretty much does one thing.
He doesn't even do it that well. I don't have one.
Melon ballers though, even though the called melon ballers can be used for so much more than that.
Little mini ice cream scoop. Anyway, so there was this one episode and this actually might
be relevant to you. There was this one episode where he smoked a salmon and he used a hot plate,
a pie tin, a cardboard box that he then poked holes in it and put essentially a small little
oven rack inside of it. And he created a little a temporary smoking oven outside
with just like crap you have around the house. Like I love this guy. I'm so surprised you've
never heard of him. There is, I have all of his books, one of them signed, I met him in person.
Look at your little fanboy. Oh, I am totally like, I love this guy.
There is one thing that we went and saw him in person. He came and he did a talk of,
if you will, at third place books in Lake Forest Park. And one of the things he talked about is
there is a lot of people who will go out and spend several hundred dollars on stoneware for
the oven for like pizzas or things like that. He's like, don't do that. All you have to do
is go to your local nursery. And you know those terracotta pots? Generally you will find
a big, terracotta pots will also have a flat piece that you put the pot on top
to hold overflow water. He's like, sure, that's what it can do. But if you grease it up,
that's a $10 stoneware piece. And if you take a flower pot, turn it upside down
on top of that piece, that becomes an itty bitty little stoneware oven. And I'll tell you,
he taught me this, that little stoneware oven. This part you probably don't care. Nothing cooks
roasted chicken better than that thing. I have done actually roasted garlic in that
and it's fantastic. The difference because the stoneware creates a convection heat.
When you just pop things in your ovens, you're going to have hot spots, cold spots. That's why
you have to rotate the damn trays all the damn time. But when you do this, all the heat emanates
all the time because ston- terracotta holds on the heat for a very long time. And so it
evens it out on the inside. I like the idea of, I like the hacking aspect of it. I don't like
following directions all the time. I never have. But he walks you through why it works. And once
you know why it works, then hacking or rather innovating what you're doing is so much easier.
Yeah. And that reminds me of, and then we'll get back to the show people care about in a bit,
in music theory courses in college, we spent a year, a little over a year, a year and a half,
just studying why music works the way it does. Isn't it true that all you need to know is the
rule of fits? No, I'll go with yes. I'm going to go with no. So studying why music works
through different areas and what and why chord progressions work and why things sound the way
they do. And you really, a lot of, well, now useless, but at the time, very interesting data.
And then finally, like in the last quarter, quarter and a half, you began to learn how to
break the rules, but you have to kind of know the rules a little bit to break the rules. And
I'm okay with that. I think I've told you before, I'm a martial artist and does that mean you're
an artist? You draw pictures of Mars. What does that mean? It means I'm a black belt and take
one dough and you keep talking. I will show you what that means. Okay. Great. Great.
The, but it is really true, but you don't, you don't really understand it until you get there.
It is really true that martial arts studies actually start when you get your black belt.
That's not the destination, but you don't, uh, all the other color belt stuff is necessary
so that you're ready to begin. That is a great way to look at it. So let's talk, just rewind a little
bit. I wish I had a rewind sound effect. Uh, I may be, I'm probably not going to. If I did,
it would sound better than the sound Brett just made. Okay. So modern testing principles.
We listed some principles last week and we're not going to read through them again. They're
in iteration. I can tell you if you thought they were in adaption, there we are iterating
and adapting, but adaption is the goal. Uh, if you thought these aren't very good, they're
better. Uh, not going to read them out again today and entirely because they're not done.
Maybe next time, but they are getting much, much closer. I'm getting much, much happier.
So that's cool. But first, and I want to talk about a couple in particular, a bit more
controversial in a minute, but I think first, one thing we didn't talk about, I think it's
actually better as a flashback is to back up a little bit and talk about why we have these
principles and why we started working on these and, and sort of the background of the modern
tester and why we believe there's a new way to describe a new way, a adapted way to describe
testing, which it really is. I didn't say just to please you and to be a Dick. No, it's really,
you might think, well, these sound a lot like you're just being a good agile tester. And
that's true, but there's a little more to it. There's an, as an adaptation, iteration,
evolution. There's some reasons to bring these points up. And so I want to start there and talk
about those. Does that work? Yeah, that's fine. That's fine. Alan and I have been talking about
this. Why offline? And I've, I've written it down. I've promised Alan that I will not be reading it
on the show today, but it is, it is a work in progress and I'll release it, you know, soonish.
So why, why do we think this, the modern principles are, or the modern testing principles are needed?
I would say in a nutshell is because the world has changed and the world has changed in significant
ways that we very firmly believe in. And I don't think it's actually just belief. I think
there's evidence. The world, I'm going to be devil's advocate over here. The world is always
changing. What's significant about the changes that you're talking about? Let me, let me, okay.
So to finish the thought, I think the world has changed and the belief that I have is,
is that what got tests to be an important role inside software industry
isn't going to, you know, the phrase, what got us here, isn't going to get us there.
I think most of the three have heard that before. Yeah, I think, I think
so. What's different? Number, number one, most critically with software becoming easy to produce.
We have so much stuff on soft our services. There are a lot of advancements and techniques around
continuous delivery. Unlike any time in history before, customer, customers have a lot more choices.
And whatever company you're in, it is a lot easier for another company to compete with you.
I know of just a ton of stories of just single people, able to release something that takes a
chunk out of, of systems or software that large industries have gone on. A better example,
I think might be is Android, right? Ten years ago, I was having conversations with people going,
what Google's trying to bone OS dude, windows has, but you know, 18 trillion lines of code.
Android is never going to be able to do that. Yeah, wrong.
So to paraphrase, I think the big points that I would take out of that is
companies are shipping faster so fast that every day, I would say, is not backed up by fact,
but I think is probably true. Every day, more and more companies are moving towards continuous
deployment. It's not only companies are shipping faster, but they kind of have to. Because as
companies ship faster, I was getting there. Go ahead. I was getting there. Stop banging the
table. I apologize for my friend Thumper here. So I think in addition to people are shipping
faster, continuous deployment coming more popular. Now that breeds competition because you're,
I'm getting updates faster than you. And here's someone new, as you mentioned, coming to market.
And again, just paraphrasing what you said. Yep. All these things are super important. So
when Microsoft hired their first tester back in the eighties, there's an article about this in
in the book that I wrote that I'm not going to mention the name of anymore.
They hired a tester because the devs were spending, believe it or not, the devs were doing
their coding, they're spending too much time running the test. They wanted someone to come
help run all the tests for them. So they hired a high school intern just to come in and run the
tests. And I thought, well, this is pretty convenient. Have someone do all my testing for
me. And it grew and it grew and it grew. And the world of, and we lived in a world
for a long time where we built something for a long time. Then we tested it. When I worked in
the office org on, on office communicators later became link, which later became Skype for business.
Uh, I was even at that time working, I had worked on windows before, but I was kind of
blown away in office. Uh, this was early mid early two thousands, maybe mid two thousands.
But the schedule was a coding milestone, which was fairly short, maybe two months,
and then almost a year of stabilization. And even at that time, I thought this is
massively inefficient. So I'm off on a tangent, but anyway, I fully agree that the points you
made around, uh, what is changing significantly recently are very obvious. Uh, and which is
why I think when we talk about these principles, we see head nods on most of them. Yeah. The, the
only important thing I think that you missed out on, on your synopsis was again, um, as in, and
it's hard for me to phrase this as a serial thing because these three items play off of each other.
So it's, it's really hard to say which is the chicken, which is the egg. Okay. And that is,
we're delivering faster at the same time. Um, that is breeding strong competition. And at the same time,
I don't even know if it's because of the other two customer switching cost has gone way down.
That's something I hear talked about a lot. The idea that, I mean, think about this on your app,
on your phone, you go, I don't like this one. Let me try another one. And I do this all the
time. I'm an app switcher and I go, I'm going to use this one to track this thing that I do.
I don't like that. I'm going to go back. I'm going to try another one. It's a, it's amazing.
It's amazing. Yeah. It is only getting better for the customer. So let me put it this way too.
I think it's a loop things around is everything you talked about is we have this system of fast
releases of competition, of customer fickleness, uh, which brings it all back to how important it is
to have a team or someone on the team or a team with the goal of accelerating the achievement of
shippable quality. Right. Cause those things all that mission statement feeds into the system you
just described. Right. So what we described is a, is a, a business reality system. The other thing too,
is, is, is, as I set it off saying the world has changed and for test, what got us here
isn't going to get us there. And what we're attempting to do is number one, create a guidance,
a vision, a North star, right. Um, document. And for you and me, it's not because we've gone through it.
Yes and no, cause I don't think it's overly aspirational. It's not, but for a lot of folks
who are reading it based off of the feedback I've seen this last week, right. There's still,
there's still a lot of shock value in some of these. There are head nods on a lot of things
and to the end of being controversial, which I want to, I want to get to those in a minute,
but I want to finish this conversation first, this part of the conversation,
the business is important. And one thing and going back to accelerating the achievement of
chipable quality and something that isn't reflected yet in the principles, which is
moving tests from a cost center to a cost benefit test is traditionally been a cost center. And I
mentioned, you know, books on reducing cost of software articles, papers test is a tax paid at
the end. The modern tester and modern testing, and in this system we talked about and accelerating
the achievement of shipable quality, there's a force multiplier that comes from applying
these modern testing principles that improve the business enough that the modern tester
is no longer attacks by any means. And not only are they not attacked, they're the opposite.
That is, that is exactly what I think we're trying to do here.
That is the big pendulum shift. It's moving from being a tax and a cost at the end
to something that makes the business more successful. And the other thing, and I think one
of the issues that we're going to hit as we roll this out and solidify it is folks are going to
view this as theoretical. I will say for me, I have done everything that I'm proposing in this.
The talk I'm giving a test bash next week on adventures in modern testing.
I gave a preview of it at a local special interest group and I've modified it reasonably
well since then for test bash. And normally I don't like to give the same talk over and over.
In this case, given where we're at and the importance of this,
I have at least one other occasion where I am giving this talk. And that's going to be at PNSQC.
I don't think that's announced yet, so sorry, in October. And then at the leadership conference in
New York in June, I am giving a workshop on managing the modern tester to talk about a lot
of these transitions, these organizational changes and how to get through them and what
it means to manage someone in an org like this. So I'm speaking at more conferences this year
than probably I ever have before, but more than I really want to. But I think it's,
I feel like with what's going on with these modern testing ideas we're talking about,
it's the right time to try and get this word out and keep the momentum going. Because
what I love about this talk, and this is one of my goals I mentioned before when I give talks,
I want to see some head nods, yeah I agree with you, and a few looks of shock.
And I like being in that sweet spot because it gets people thinking.
I don't disagree. Good.
Right, when I went through this, like some of the feedback we've gotten is, hey, tone down
the controversy. And I'll say in a lot of places I don't agree with that because what I kind of
view it as, and I saw this at Microsoft when I went through this, is that right now is the
opportunity. It was very clear in my head that what was going to get the traditional tester here
isn't going to move forward anymore, but that there was still time to save some of these people's
jobs. If I could get, convince them that there is a ticking time bomb, and if they acted now,
they could shift themselves to a better place. And to be clear, I totally forgot the point I
was going to originally make, so I'm talking about the talks, I want to come back to that.
But I'm reminded first of a quote I use often from Ronald Heffetz in the book Leadership on the
Line. It says, leadership is disappointing people at a level they can absorb. And the shocking
things are just disappointing. My adventures in modern testing talk is of course filled with
tangents because that's what I do, but it's a journey. It starts off with the reflection of
the last few projects I've done and how what I've learned on those teams have led me towards a lot
of these modern testing principles. And then I talk about what modern testing is, and then
examples of how I'm walking the talk and doing those currently in my job and embracing change.
In the very beginning, I have to give away the whole thing, basically say this is not a future
of testing talk, which are all theoretical, and I've given one before and they're all wrong.
This is a talk about embracing change. And then it's all just stories, adventures, stories.
I like, I'm not touting my own talk much, but when I watch talks, I like it when it's real
experiences. I hate talks that are all about theory. So I think it's really important that
at this stage, we are able to take the theory away from this. And what I expect is once we get
the principles sort of finalized, I think they will always be tweaked and edited,
but they'll get pretty close after a while, is we should start, we'll start talking on podcasts
about stories that support the principles and what they mean. I and or Brent or both of us
kind of covered in that statement, we'll blog and write articles and give about individual
principles to show background to move that theory into these are real life examples of
what this means and what's different. Yeah. I don't like it. Again, I don't think what what
we're writing down is theory, but I do acknowledge it will be for several folks interpreted as such.
Right. Again, I've I've I've done these. And again, I've seen enough head nods, we can get
stories from from the world as well. So I want to ask you a few questions for
sort of the fact, develop the fact here online. So question number one, these principles,
as you guys have been discussing, and if you need to go review what the original ones were,
you can go look at the show notes for Episode 77. Pause your recording way, go get those. So
Brent, a lot of these sound like agile things that agile teams do. So why,
why are they called out separately in the principles of modern testing?
That is one of the foundational pieces that are important in modern testing. I mean,
as we just went through and talked, there's been a bunch of changes in the software world.
I think agile and those agile principles are critical to it. In terms of the initial feedback,
right, what we're trying to strike is we're trying to say, this is actually really important
in the test, the modern test context. I will just freely admit that in my in my own head,
some of the principles doesn't seem to have the recipe quite right yet. And it's more focused on
anything you could read from, you know, how to do Kanban and not sort of the, what does it mean to
the modern tester? Okay. So let me, let me lead that question into another. Yeah. So I agree.
There are some of the principles which are like from the agile world, these are super important
because they help you accelerate the achievement of shipable quality and help the team adapt and
shift faster and better quality and more value to customers. Those things I think are worth calling
out. But then there's also an alignment. Yes. But let me, let me ask the next question, which is,
well, and then, so if you look at it that way, some of these sound more like a product or project
project manager sort of principles than a modern tester principles. That's going to be,
that's, I'll just say, one of the things that I'm, I'm thinking about is, is the question of
how do I describe crisply the role of the modern tester versus some of these other common
concepts, Scrum Master being one. Am I saying that modern tester is a Scrum Master? No. No.
Am I saying a modern tester is a PM? No. Am I saying a modern tester is a dev?
Well, actually in that case, there might be an argument because I do think another thing that
we haven't fully talked about, but it kind of goes into the very last principle. And that is,
as it comes to particularly code correctness, unified engineering team, in my view, is a vastly
better way to go. Yes, I agree. Having a engineering team is a much more efficient way to make
quality software and ship it quickly. And while we're talking about the noun modern tester,
I don't know, I don't, it's not clear in my head if I have a modern tester specialist
as a member of this unified engineering team. But it is absolutely clear that modern testing
activities are an active part of that unified engineering team. Yes, yes. And therein lies some
more confusion. So one thing I want to bring up on your last question is, as we've indirectly
mentioned before, the modern tester is a specialized in generalist. And they may wear that
PM hat sometimes. And that's, I think it's common for someone in what we're calling the modern tester
role to take on some project management, management ish tasks and responsibilities from time to time.
No, I think we're saying that the lot of software has been developed with three individual disciplines.
And while we're not making a statement around whether or not it's good to continue to have
three, I think one of the things that we're saying is we recognize that people operated in
that world today, and we're trying to help shift the change. But just like what we're
saying is testing moves to dev for a lot of the work, right? Yeah, things are, it's going to shift
the interaction between a modern tester and the PM changes as well. And I'll just say one of the
things that I think a modern tester focuses on, or versus a PM as an example, a modern tester is
comparing and shrinking the hypotheses of the product, the assumptions, the guesses, aka
what you see in a PM docket with a list under the word requirements. Okay, these are all assumptions.
The modern tester is going, okay, I am not only testing on the product's ability to deliver those
assumptions, but I'm testing on which of those assumptions are actually valid. So I do think
modern tester in this regard is a bit of an optimizer. Hey, we have these guesses on the product.
Which of those guesses are correct? Which ones should we go all in on? I think one of their
roles is for an example is to inform the PM, who in this world is more of the intuitionist
dreamer, the guy who's trying to build new markets. Okay, that's a more, and I do view,
I may be downgrading the PM, but I do view that role is really important because I think the
modern tester and developer are working on removing waste while producing value. I like that.
I think the PM's forward thinking. I think the PM's going, okay, once we kill this job,
once we kill this sort of product value, we can move into this other market that Dev and
test may not be focused on. They're trying to go, how do I build the business? Where the modern
tester is more around, how do I make the customers that are finding value with this stay? How do I
get them delighted? And what things aren't actually contributing to? Could you say the PM
role in that case is to build the business and the modern tester is to help or is to improve
the business? Is that too much of a summary? I would say, I like how you did that, but then
you made me think of architecture. And I'm actually thinking that the PM is sort of trying to design
the business. It's the modern. If you go back to architecture, yeah, it's the design architect.
And then the modern tester, maybe the craftsman is making sure that the
building is, the design is efficiently implemented. I don't want to go too deep into the metaphor
there because it breaks down pretty quickly. So I'm actually thinking of yet another one of
my heroes, which is Christopher Alexander. Of course. I know that name. Yes. And he was an
architect and he introduced to the world design patterns. Okay. And we've talked about it before
not going to go into it now. But he did two things. Number one, he showed how design patterns
improved the business, but his focus was around these things he called positive and negative forces.
Because what he was trying to do was influence the happiness of the people who would live in his
designs. An example I use all the time is you don't install a toilet in the middle of your
kitchen because no one's going to use that toilet. I don't think you need to go into the because.
Well, yeah, but I think I think PMs are business designers. I think keeping the Christopher
Alexander example alive, like someone needs to notice which patterns are creating positive impact,
which patterns are creating negative impact and drive the business to deal with those
in near real time. Unlike in the old architecture days where you had to have a full design up front.
And this is one of the things that there's a kind of key change. You don't do big design
up front anymore. Right. You iterate. So there's the risk of being wrong is much smaller now.
And I, but what that does is it creates a wide, a wide number of components. You have a lot more
options. It's a full time job to go through and say, which of these things do we improve in?
Okay. I want to fire off three more questions in the last 10 minutes here. If I can remember them
all throughout the discussion, the first is, okay, Brent, I'm bought in on modern testing.
I get how the evolution works. It takes some experience to be a modern tester,
yep. To be able to apply these things. How, as more of our people move into these
roles we're describing as a modern tester, what's the entry path then for new people in
modern time? I have some answers to this as well, but how do you, how do we then find more
people because modern testers grow from the test rank and they're growing into roles that are no
longer test roles? Typically. How do we get new people into modern testing? What's the growth path
for a fresher as they say? I'll just be quite honest. I have been thinking about this a lot.
I don't think I have a really solid answer. Part of me goes, you know what? This is a change
management role and this is a leadership role. I am not certain you can hire someone into this.
And then another part is, you know what? One of the things that we're also saying is over time
we don't, over time this just becomes an activity that is assigned to a specialist.
Right. And in that regards, it's, then you can hire someone new. I would start with hiring
dev or PM with traditional dev or PM skills. That's exactly where I was going to go. I think
I would add statistics to their training and I would add customer behavior analysis. And
yes, but I wouldn't be so prescriptive about that. You're not going to, they don't,
you're not going to grow it and nurture it like a plant. You're not going to go, okay,
you are going to be our modern tester. Here's how we're going to train you. And when you're done,
you'll be able to do this. I think I have known many, I would look, I would look, I have known
many developers who have, we hire them as a developer. They end up caring a lot about
quality and craftsmanship. And those people, even though they've never been a tester,
would follow these modern testing rule principles without ever having heard them before. They just,
they're, those people will grow out of the existing people on our teams.
Let me clarify.
And I also think there's a, there doesn't need to be a modern tester on every team. In fact,
all, I can definitely see roles even in my org where someone, me or others, could just be a coach
of modern testing principles for multiple feature teams very easily, which is a different answer to
the question we asked, but you wanted to clarify something. So go ahead.
So I agree with everything you just said. Like it's a reason why we're calling it the modern
testing principles, not the modern tester principles. Right. And if you look at our
last principle, we're, we're actually saying specialists with the title tester, we expect to
disappear. Yes. But what, so to clarify, I would not hire, include that line on, I know you're
interrupted, but we should include that line in the introduction for principles. These are modern
testing, not modern tester principles. Go on. Yeah. That clarity I think is noted.
If I were hiring this person, I wouldn't be trying to hire this person directly. What I would do is I
would go, okay, what I want is someone who has the skills to work in this type of domain.
So I would be attracted to people who had customer behavior, experience on their resume,
okay. Data stats, ML and dev. And I will say that one of the things that I've started having
conversations with my own team, like you and I are talking about, Hey, test is on its way out.
I'm starting to see the beginning of the end of people in my role. ML work is suddenly become a
lot more commonplace. I think there's a generality there. The specialists, as we know, is a bottleneck.
For sure. And we're starting to see with modern testing and with the democratization of data
science. Yep. We're seeing the specializing generalist and as a manager building a team,
you build the team of specializing generals with different areas of specialization within there
to help build the jigsaw puzzle of a good team. And that's how you build a modern test
100% agree. It may be one person with that big testing background, but it may be in the future,
more likely, it's a few different people that bring the different principles to the table on
the future team. Yeah, it is all about the team and it is all about what skills you have in the
team and how well you get the team members leveraging each other's knowledge instead of
trying to duplicate it. Right. So why call it modern testing? Why modern is next post modern
testing? Why is this modern compared to traditional testing? What's your, what's in my view, it's,
it's, and I know the answer is, is it the fact in my view, it's simply, um, to force that comparison
between traditional someone else on a called it vintage. I, I kind of, I kind of liked that one
because it, it kind of gives a nice turn, but makes it sound really old. I heard someone else
call it Bass, Acre, 1990s testing. Yeah, that doesn't quite flow off the tongue. Not quite. Right.
But the other thing I will, I fully realize we need to put this in, in our published documentation.
Right. One of the key principles of modern testing is you constantly adapt.
And as, uh, as new techniques and new software, uh, models come into play, we're going, uh,
we would hope that modern testing would persist by learning these things and incorporating into it.
So it, it is in some regards, it is a living document. But if ever one of these techniques
comes into play that, that just essentially eliminates the need for, for, uh, testing in any
regard. Um, I think rightfully so, just like we're proposing traditional testing should be abandoned.
So should modern testing. Yeah. And what comes next, that's going to be up to
whoever realizes this pattern and names it, I guess. Yeah. And like I mentioned earlier,
talking about the talk that I'm giving, it's not about the future. It's about embracing change.
We could say in a way, modern testing is very much about that as well. It's not about defining
the future. It's about embracing the change that's going on and what it means to software quality and
soft, the software testing activities. It's about, I think it's more than embracing change.
It's about it embracing and acting on that change. You know, the phrase,
when I embrace, I embrace deeply. So it acting is included. Anytime. Do you want a hug? Later.
Anytime there is a change, it is also an opportunity. And what we're trying to do with modern testing,
and I, I mean, there's a lot of things in here and there isn't a single one thing other than
accelerating the achievement of ship of equality that binds it together. Um, but what we're
trying to do is saying, Hey, this is happening. It's not a matter of, of if it's a matter of when
it's happening, that the momentum is there. And when the universal tipping point happens,
it's going to happen fast. Now we see an opportunity for people who start preparing
themselves for that time. And you don't have to, it's, it's not like you're not going to gain value
out of it immediately once you start doing this prep. But the people who I, I view it as the
people who really see this light, see that this tipping point is in fact coming and starting to
prepare for it. They're going to thrive when it hits. Yep. One of the controversial points,
there's, there's one, there's two controversial points in the principles. And again, you can go
read them on episode 77 show notes. There's one around where we may reduce or eliminate
the need for modern for, for the testing, a specific testing role. Uh, that one's like,
Oh, my job. But we'll talk about that and explain that about breaking change. That one was
obvious, obviously controversial, meant to be controversial to get people thinking.
There's another one around the customer. And we said that something close to is in constant
evolution. The only, the customer is capable of evaluating the quality of the software.
And traditionally testers have thought about like, I am the customer. I'm the protector of the
customer. And, but both Brent and I believe very strongly in this one and we've had pushed to
remove the word quality and call it value. And we both kind of feel like quality is the right word
there. And I'm going to bounce this off some folks at test bash as well. We're going to get a bunch
of feedback. And as a teaser, the first ever AB testing cliffhanger, we're going to dive deep
into that next time on AB testing. I'm Alan. I'm Brett and we'll see you next time.